Rework PlaceholderExpansion page (#654)
PlaceholderAPI/PlaceholderAPI: wiki/PlaceholderExpansion.md

[placeholderexpansion]: https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/PlaceholderAPI/blob/master/src/main/java/me/clip/placeholderapi/expansion/PlaceholderExpansion.java

[playerexpansion]: https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/Player-Expansion
[serverexpansion]: https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/Server-Expansion
[mathexpansion]: https://github.com/Andre601/Math-expansion

[relational]: https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/PlaceholderAPI/blob/master/src/main/java/me/clip/placeholderapi/expansion/Relational.java

## Overview
This page will cover how you can create your own [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] which you can either [[Upload to the eCloud|Expansion cloud]] or integrate into your own plugin.

> Something to note here is, that PlaceholderAPI relies on Expansions to be installed. PlaceholderAPI is acting as the core while the Expansions are what allows other plugins to use placeholders in various messages.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that PlaceholderAPI relies on expansions being installed. PlaceholderAPI only acts as the core replacing utility while the expansions allow other plugins to use any installed placeholder in their own messages.
```

You can download Expansions either directly from the eCloud yourself, or download them through the [[download command of PlaceholderAPI|Commands#papi-ecloud-download]].

## Table of Contents

- [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Common Parts](#common-parts)
- [Without a Plugin](#without-a-plugin)

> - [With a Plugin (External Jar)](#with-a-plugin-external-jar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Why should this be removed?

Reviewer: Is it not a duplicate?
![](https://i.imgur.com/bd4AUpN.png)

Author: Can you not read?

Reviewer: Oh no those look extremely similar, and I wouldn't necessarily call it an `Internal Jar` which is probably why I never looked at the parentheses lol

- [With a Plugin (Internal Jar)](#with-a-plugin-internal-jar)
  - [Register the Expansion](#register-the-expansion)
- [Relational Placeholders](#relational-placeholders)
  - [Notes about Relational Placeholders](#notes-about-relational-placeholders)

## Getting started

> To get started, first choose what type of [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] you want to create. There are various ways you can create a [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] from which this page will cover the most common ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For starters, you need to decide what type of [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] you want to create. There are various ways to create an expansion. This page will cover the most common ones.
```

### Common Parts

> All shown examples will share the same, common parts that belong to the [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] class.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All shown examples will share the same common parts that belong to the [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] class.
```

Author: You removed the two spaces at the end for the line break...

> To not repeat the same basic info for each method throughout this page will we cover the most basic/neccessary ones here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to not repeat the same basic info for each method throughout this page, and to greatly reduce its overall length, we will cover the most basic/necessary ones here.
``

public class SomeExpansion extends PlaceholderExpansion {

    @Override
    public String getAuthor(){
        return "someauthor";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getIdentifier(){
        return "example";
    }

    @Override
    public String getVersion(){
        return "1.0.0";
    }
}
```
Let's quickly break down the different methods you had to import.

- #### getAuthor
  Through this method you can set the name of who created the expansion.
- #### getIdentifier
  The name that should be used to identify the placeholders for this expansion.  
  The Identifier is the first text after the `%` and before the first `_` (`%identifier_values%`) and can therefore not contain any `_` in it.
  
  If you want to use `_` in your Expansion's name can you override the optional `getName()` method.
- #### getVersion
  This is a String, which means it doesn't have to be a number in itself. The String is used to determine if a new update is available or not, when the expansion is shared on the eCloud.  
  For Expansions that are part of another plugin does this does not really matter.

Those are all the neccessary parts for your PlaceholderExpansion.  

> Any other methods that are part of the [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] class are optional and will usually not be used, or default to a specific value. Please read the Javadoc comments of those methods for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any other methods that are part of the [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] class are optional and will usually not be used, or will default to a specific value. Please read the Javadoc comments of those methods for more information.
```

        return "someauthor";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getIdentifier(){
        return "example";
    }

    @Override
    public String getVersion(){
        return "1.0.0";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String onRequest(OfflinePlayer player, String params){
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("name")){
            return player == null ? null : player.getName(); // "name" requires the player to be valid
    
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder1")){
            return "Placeholder Text 1";
    
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder2")){
            return "Placeholder Text 2";
        
        return null; // Placeholder is unknown by the Expansion
    }
}
```

----
## With a Plugin (External Jar)
If your Expansion relies on a Plugin to provide its placeholder values you will need to override a few more methods to make sure everything will work as it should.

Your expansion will need to override the `getRequiredPlugin()` method to return the name of the plugin your expansion depends on.  
PlaceholderAPI does by default check, if this method either returns null, or the name defined results in a Not-null plugin being available.

> Something worth noting is, that it is a bit more difficult to make a separate Jar file that depends on a plugin, as it will require the plugin to have some sort of accessible API to use in order to get the values needed.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is worth noting that it is a bit more difficult to make a separate jar file that depends on a plugin, as it will require the plugin to have some sort of accessible API in order to get the required values.
```

One way to bypass this is to override the `canRegister()` method with the following code:

```java
SomePlugin plugin; // This would be the plugin your expansion depends on

@Override
public boolean canregister(){
    // This sets plugin to the SomePlugin instance you get through the PluginManager
    return (plugin = (SomePlugin) Bukkit.getPluginManager().getPlugin(getRequiredPlugin())) != null;
}
```

> With this code-snippet can you get a direct instance of the Plugin and access things such as config values.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this code-snippet, you can get a direct instance of the plugin and access things such as config values.
```

> With that said is it recommended to instead use an API if available, as this kind of plugin access is not really a good approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that said, it is recommended instead to use an API if one is available, as this kind of plugin access is a relatively poor approach.
```

import at.helpch.placeholderapi.example.SomePlugin;
import org.bukkit.OfflinePlayer;
import me.clip.placeholderapi.expansion.PlaceholderExpansion;

public class SomeExpansion extends PlaceholderExpansion {

    SomePlugin plugin; // This instance is assigned in canRegister()
    
    @Override
    public String getAuthor(){
        return "someauthor";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getIdentifier(){
        return "example";
    }

    @Override
    public String getVersion(){
        return "1.0.0";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getRequiredPlugin(){
        return "SomePlugin";
    }
    
    @Override
    public boolean canRegister(){
        return (plugin = (SomePlugin) Bukkit.getPluginManager().getPlugin(getRequiredPlugin())) != null;
    }
    
    @Override
    public String onRequest(OfflinePlayer player, String params){
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder1")){
            return plugin.getConfig().getString("placeholders.placeholder1", "default1");
    
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder2")){
            return plugin.getConfig().getString("placeholders.placeholder2", "default2");
        

>         return null; // Placeholder is unknown by the Expansion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return null; // Placeholder is unknown by the expansion
```

    }
}
```

----
## With a Plugin (Internal Jar)

> The way Expansions are handled when they are part of the plugin itself is fairly similar to when you [make a Jar without a plugin dependency](#without-a-plugin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way expansions are handled when they are part of the plugin itself is fairly similar to when you [make an expansion without a plugin dependency](#without-a-plugin).
```

In fact, you don't even have to override the `getRequiredPlugin()` and `canRegister()` methods as it is always guaranteed that the plugin is available.  

> Something worth noting is, that you need to override the `persist()` method and make it return true. This ensures that the Expansion won't be unregistered by PlaceholderAPI whenever it is reloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something worth noting, however, is that you need to override the `persist()` method and make it return true. This ensures that the expansion won't be unregistered by PlaceholderAPI whenever it is reloaded.
```

> Finally, can you also use Dependency Injection for a more easy way to access a plugin's methods.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can also use dependency injection as an easier way to access a plugin's methods.
```

> Here is a small code example of how this Dependency Injection may look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a small code example of how dependency injection may look:
```

```java
public class SomeExpansion extends PlaceholderExpansion {
    final SomePlugin plugin; // The instance is created in the constructor and won't be modified, so it can be final
    
    public SomeExpansion(SomePlugin plugin){
        this.plugin = plugin;
    }
}
```

#### Full Example
Please see the [Common parts](#common-parts) section for info on the other methods.

```java
package at.helpch.placeholderapi.example.expansions;

import at.helpch.placeholderapi.example.SomePlugin;
import org.bukkit.OfflinePlayer;
import me.clip.placeholderapi.expansion.PlaceholderExpansion;

public class SomeExpansion extends PlaceholderExpansion {

>     SomePlugin plugin;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
private SomePlugin plugin;
```

    
    public SomeExpansion(SomePlugin plugin){
        this.plugin = plugin;
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getAuthor(){
        return "someauthor";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getIdentifier(){
        return "example";
    }

    @Override
    public String getVersion(){
        return "1.0.0";
    }
    
    @Override
    public boolean persist(){
        return true; // This is required or else PlaceholderAPI will unregister the Expansion on reload
    }
    
    @Override
    public String onRequest(OfflinePlayer player, String params){
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder1")){
            return plugin.getConfig().getString("placeholders.placeholder1", "default1");
    
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("placeholder2")){
            return plugin.getConfig().getString("placeholders.placeholder2", "default2");
        
        return null; // Placeholder is unknown by the Expansion
    }
}
```

### Register the Expansion

> To now register the expansion will you need to call the `register()` method yourself.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register the expansion, you will need to call the `register()` method yourself.
```

> This should be done in your plugin's `onEnable()` void after you made sure that PlaceholderAPI is installed and enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should be done in your plugin's `onEnable()` method after you make sure that PlaceholderAPI is installed and enabled.
```

> Let's quickly break down the different methods you had to import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's quickly break down the different methods you have to implement.
```

- #### getAuthor

>   Through this method you can set the name of who created the expansion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This method allows you to set the name of the expansion's author.
```

- #### getIdentifier
  The name that should be used to identify the placeholders for this expansion.  

>   The Identifier is the first text after the `%` and before the first `_` (`%identifier_values%`) and can therefore not contain any `_` in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identifier is the string after the starting `%` and before the first `_` (`%**identifier**_values%`) and, therefore, cannot contain any `_`s.
```

Author: ** won't really work here since it's in a inline code. Also, I doubt people are THAT dumb to not recognize the part literally called "identifier"

Reviewer: Ah okay, can keep the identifier normal then, but I would suggest implementing the rest of the changes!

>   If you want to use `_` in your Expansion's name can you override the optional `getName()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you want to use `_` in your expansion's name, you can override the optional `getName()` method.
```

- #### getVersion

>   This is a String, which means it doesn't have to be a number in itself. The String is used to determine if a new update is available or not, when the expansion is shared on the eCloud.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a string, which means it can contain more than just a number. This is used to determine if a new update is available or not when the expansion is shared on the eCloud.
```

>   For Expansions that are part of another plugin does this does not really matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For expansions that are part of a plugin, this does not really matter.
```

Those are all the neccessary parts for your PlaceholderExpansion.  
Any other methods that are part of the [`PlaceholderExpansion`][placeholderexpansion] class are optional and will usually not be used, or default to a specific value. Please read the Javadoc comments of those methods for more information.

> There are two specific methods which are options, but you should use at least one of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must choose between one of these two methods for handling the actual parsing of placeholders:
```

- #### onRequest(OfflinePlayer, String)

>   If not set this method will default to calling [`onPlaceholderRequest(Player, String)`](#onplaceholderrequestplayer-string).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not explicitly set, this will automatically call [`onPlaceholderRequest(Player, String)`](#onplaceholderrequestplayer-string).
```

>   This method is recommended to use as it allows the usage of `null` and can therefore be used in placeholders that don't need a valid player to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is recommended as it allows the usage of `null` and can therefore be used in placeholders that don't require a valid player to be used.
```

- #### onPlaceholderRequest(Player, String)

>   If not set this method will return `null` which PlaceholderAPI sees as invalid placeholder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not set, this method will return `null` which PlaceholderAPI sees as an invalid placeholder.
```

----
## Without a Plugin

> A PlaceholderExpansion may not need a plugin to rely on, if the placeholders it provides can return values from just the server itself or some other source (i.e. Java itself).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An expansion does not always need a plugin to rely on. If the placeholders it provides can return values from just the server itself or some other source (i.e. Java itself), then it can work independently.
 
```

- [Server Expansion][serverexpansion]
- [Math Expansion][mathexpansion]

> These kinds of Expansions don't require any additional plugins to function.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These kinds of expansions don't require any additional plugins to function.
```

----
## With a Plugin (External Jar)

> If your Expansion relies on a Plugin to provide its placeholder values you will need to override a few more methods to make sure everything will work as it should.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your expansion relies on a plugin to provide its placeholder values, you will need to override a few more methods to make sure everything will work correctly.
```

Your expansion will need to override the `getRequiredPlugin()` method to return the name of the plugin your expansion depends on.  

> PlaceholderAPI does by default check, if this method either returns null, or the name defined results in a Not-null plugin being available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PlaceholderAPI automatically checks if this method will either return null, or if the name defined results in a non-null plugin.
```

    }
}
```

----
## Relational Placeholders
Relational Placeholders are a bit more specific compared to the previous examples.  

> While they do use the same [common parts](#common-parts) like the other examples do they have a different method to return placeholders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While they do use the same [common parts](#common-parts) that the other examples do, they have a different method to return placeholders.
```

> In order to use the relational placeholders feature will you need to implement the [`Relational`][relational] interface, which in return adds the `onPlaceholderRequest(Player, Player, String)` method to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the relational placeholders feature, you will need to implement the [`Relational`][relational] interface, which in return adds the `onPlaceholderRequest(Player, Player, String)` method to use.
```

#### Full Example
Please see the [Common parts](#common-parts) section for info on the other methods.

> In this Example do we use the [Internal class setup](#with-a-plugin-internal-jar) and `SomePlugin` has a `areFriends(Player, Player)` method that returns true or false based on if the Players are friends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we use the [Internal class setup](#with-a-plugin-internal-jar) and `SomePlugin` has an `areFriends(Player, Player)` method that returns true or false based on if the given players are friends.
```

    SomePlugin plugin;
    
    public SomeExpansion(SomePlugin plugin){
        this.plugin = plugin;
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getAuthor(){
        return "someauthor";
    }
    
    @Override
    public String getIdentifier(){
        return "example";
    }

    @Override
    public String getVersion(){
        return "1.0.0";
    }
    
    @Override
    public boolean persist(){
        return true; // This is required or else PlaceholderAPI will unregister the Expansion on reload
    }
    
    @Override
    public String onPlaceholderRequest(Player one, Player two, String identifier){
        if(one == null || two == null)
            return null; // We require both Players to be online
            
        if(params.equalsIgnoreCase("friend")){
            if(plugin.areFriends(one, two))
                return ChatColor.GREEN + one.getName() + " and " + two.getName() + " are friends!";
            else
                return ChatColor.GREEN + one.getName() + " and " + two.getName() + " are not friends!";
        }
        
        return null; // Placeholder is unknown by the Expansion
    }
}
```

### Notes about Relational Placeholders

> Relational Placeholders will always start with `%rel_` to properly identify them as such.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relational placeholders will always start with `%rel_` to properly identify them.
```

> So for the above example to work will the full placeholder need to look like `%rel_example_friend%`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So in the above example, the full placeholder will look like `%rel_example_friend%`.
```
